Do you have your absolute dream job between, I mean, you do a few things,
but like you, you get to talk UFC. You're a black belt under Eddie,
right? Yeah. And so like, you've kind of found the perfect job for yourself.
It's a great job. Cause you just, I can tell when you talk about,
you just love it so much. Like I love surfing, you know, I just, I live,
eat and breathe. Sure.
If every day I wake up and the first thing I do is look at where's waves in the
world. Where.
Do you think when you retire, you'll do commentary.
Uh, maybe a little bit. Yeah, maybe a little bit, but I don't want to,
I don't really want a job. <laugh> when I retire, you know, I've been, look,
I've been, I've been on pro tour pretty much since I was 19 and 46,
I took about three years off, but I would still compete a little,
little bit those years. What.
Are the, what is the high end of the age limit in terms of like,
when I can really compete.
Like right now? No, I'm no one's ever been my age on tour. Really? Yeah. No,
I think the next oldest guy on tour is 38 and he's retiring this year. Wow.
When I've got on tour, the oldest guy was 28 years old. Holy. Yeah. It was like,
there was a real, you know, I would say in, in the eighties there wasn't like,
it didn't look like you could make some money and if you were the top five guy,
but it didn't look like you could have like this crazy career. So guys,
weren't thinking longevity, they're like, let's go have a fricking good time.
Right. Travel around the world and get paid for it for a few years.
And then we'll figure out a job after,
or maybe we'll have enough money to kind of live real humbly. What is.
The difference between how prepare and other guys is it your diet,
strength and conditioning? Like.
What is it? Um, I don't overexert myself very much. So my,
my training aside from surfing, isn't a lot. Um, I retain,
I feel like I retain enough strength to be good at what I need to.
So don't burn yourself out. I don't burn myself out, you know, cuz like I,
the oldest people in the world, world weren't athletes, you know, mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, they're kind of people who didn't burn themselves out too much.
Right. So I, my theory on longevity is like, don't overdo it. I don't know,
need to necessarily be overtrained for what I do. A lot of the skill,
a lot of the, the,
the winning that I do competitively is from a skill it's not so much from being
super strong, having crazy cardio mm-hmm <affirmative>,
it's making a choice about which wave,
how I'm gonna approach and ride that wave.
And I have to get two scores every 30 minutes when I compete. So it's like,
I got this 30 minute window I need to be ready for.
I don't need to be like in crazy, crazy shape. Cuz. So what is it.
That held other guys back in the past? I, I.
Think there's a number of, I think, um,
you have to naturally be really competitive, like in your,
when you were born in your home, somehow you had to,
maybe you needed something to prove, you know, I, I was kind of like,
you know, growing up, I, I sort of looked back at it and kinda laughed.
Like I maybe I couldn't get the girl.
I liked cuz she liked an older guy or you know, I didn't have,
we didn't really have any money in my family. So I wanted to make some money.
I had an older brother who kind of picked on me,
but I hung out with him and played football with his friends that were all three
years older than me. So I had to be strong, you know,
I had to be tough and fast. I had to be smart.
That's the case with a lot of guys, older brothers. Yeah.
Older brothers that they couldn't really compete with and like this.
And so every night it would just eat.
Away at them. Yeah. I think it, I think it did. And there was always that,
you know, my brother and I have, I,
I think we have a pretty good relationship now and I don't think he would, um,
disagree with me that we kind of didn't get along for 20 years or more <laugh>
we sort of hate each other. That's a long time. Yeah. But you know,
from the time we were teenagers, we kind of grew apart. You know, I,
I sort of started doing real well competing on the world stage and he sort of
stagnated and we just, you know, people and families have different, uh,
dynamics, you know, each child has a different dynamic,
whether the first or the I'm in the middle of three, all boys,
our younger brother was three, six years younger than me.
So he was kind of out of the loop when we're teenagers, he's still a little kid,
so we weren't really competing with him,
but he saw us competing against each other in maybe a few ways.
And it kind of turned him off the surfing.
So he didn't start surfing until he was a teenager. Oh wow. And when he did,
he rode longboards and we all, we're both up borders, like, you know, more, um,
competition kind of guys. And he loved kind of the old throwback,
the sixties and seventies surfers on long boards or on single fins,
which is like not a modern board at all. And um, why would someone.
Choose one or the other.
Long boards or short boards? Yeah, it's a, it's a real different skill. Um,
long boards are kind of easier to just get up and ride a wave, but the,
the skill you have on a long board is more, it's, it's more ballet than it is,
uh, gym or something, you know, it's not like big maneuvers. Mm-hmm,
<affirmative>, it's more like gliding on the wave,
looking like you're not trying hard. It's, it's more of a, a dance, if you will,
than it is like a, so them kind of an athletic skill and you know,
short boarding is just, you know,
you're going for aerials and lots of different sort of fast maneuvers,
really riding in the pocket of the wave. Whereas long boarding,
you're looking for a different kind of you,
you ride a different kind of wave altogether. You really don't.
Most of the waves we ride for modern short boarding and competition aren't
waves. You who would ride on a longboard, cuz they're too hollow.
They're too quick and fast and you can't fit a longboard in the same way.
So your brother.
Just kind of took it up more for the fun of it and the.
Aesthetic of it. Yeah. He literally was at the beach one day, his story,
he was about 14 or 15 and we always tried to get him to surf.
And when he was about eight or 10, I took him surfing one day at our local, uh,
break at S in Florida. And, and I pushed him on this wave and he,
he ate it and was underwater a long time. It kind of freaked him out,
not a long time. I mean, long time for an eight year old,
like maybe 10 seconds or eight seconds, you know, when you're out of breath,
a little freaky, like you don't know which way's up and he kind of quit surfing.
And then when he was like 14 or 15, he's at the beach and this guy, he,
he really respected this kind of older guy, like, Hey,
I'm gonna run somewhere where we watch my board.
He had a long board and he said, you watch my board. And Steven said, oh yeah,
watch it. And the guy said, you can go use it if you want.
He paddled out and caught a few waves.
And he just sort of fell in love with that minute with surfing.
And it was something unique for him cuz we didn't long board. So it was like,
it was that beach life and thing we love, but it was different, you know? Right.
He got his own thing. Yeah. Yeah. And then me and my brother, we, you know,
I got more and more into competition and getting sponsored and stuff and,
and he sort of, he,
he just kind of started fading out of doing a competition full-time and stuff
and, and uh, and uh, then when I was a teenager,
when I was in a ju a freshman in high school, this guy moved into town, uh,
this kid named drew and he had sort of got kicked out of a couple schools
elsewhere and uh, got himself in some trouble.
And when he came to came over to the B, he was kind of in these inland schools,
but he was good at football, good at baseball.
He was kind of a really good athlete. Uh,
he became the quarterback on our football team. He was a baseball player,
all this kind of stuff. So he was, he was a total jock, not a surfer at all.
And somehow he and I became best buddies. And uh, you know, I liked,
I liked all the sports. I grew up of football, basketball, baseball,
little bit of tennis. Um, and, and he and I ultimately,
where we got to was he sort of became my big brother competitively and we used
to battle and it didn't matter whose feelings got hurt. You know,
like we competed at absolutely everything from horseshoe to bowling
to pool <laugh> on my birthday every year on my birthday,
we made it a pact to where we'd go play every kind of game we could possibly.
And we keep a tally of who won what it was many. It was putt, butt golf.
It was go-karts, it was basketball. It was shuffle board.
It was like literally everything, air ho you know, everything we could think of.
And uh, we'd just keep a tally. And we,
we used to bet in the millions of dollars, really? Yeah. Well, yeah,
of course we, so, you know,
at some point somebody owed somebody hundreds of millions of dollars <laugh> but
you never paid. No, of course. I mean, when it came down to like actual money,
then it was like five bucks, you know <laugh> and, and at, at one point he,
he was, uh,
he got really into horseshoe and he called me me out one day and he's like,
you meet me at the beach. We're gonna play some horseshoe. I'm like, all right.
I'm like, but I'm not playing you unless we're betting some money,
like some real money. And he's like, all right, bring some money.
And at the end of the day, he ended up owning me about 160 bucks.
<laugh> and he's like, you tell my wife, I owe you. I'll kill you. Now.
I'll never pay you. <laugh> he's like, I don't have the money.
I can't pay you that. He's like,
so I'll pay you like 20 bucks here and there as we go. But drew used to,
he beat me at everything. He was better than me at basically everything.
And so it was like that at ping pong too, on my 18th birthday
that I like to call it the night of upsets because it was the night that Mike
Tyson lost the bus of Douglas. And it was, it was, uh,
the night of February 10th, my birthday's in the 11th on the 11th,
but they were in Tokyo. So they were on the 11th fighting Tyson,
lost drew shows up in my house with a ping pong table. And he says,
it was like my birthday gift. All my friends bought me this ping pong table.
My mom, my three buddies and drew beat me 17 straight games in a row.
And I started crying <laugh> and, uh,
I think he ended up letting me finally win the last game so we could go to bed.
And it was like two in the morning. And man, I've never been I've really,
honestly,
never been so frustrated and just outright beaten by somebody at anything.
And he just owned.
I just knew he owned me and he would just tell me where he's gonna hit the ball
on the table and beat me, but.